## Use useQuery Hook for fetching the data

- `useQuery` hook is used to fethc the data using RQuery. [useQuery](https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/framework/react/reference/useQuery). Different setting can be done to control the data fetch behaviour.

- Before v5, the useQuery used to accept the arguments in this format - 
    ```jsx
        useQuery([queryKey], queryFn, { options });
    ```
    But after v5, the arguments are passed as an object:
    ```jsx
        useQuery({queryKey, queryFn, options });
    ```


    ```jsx
    import { useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query';

    function Todos() {
        const { data: todos, isLoading, error } = useQuery(['todos'], async () => {
            const res = await fetch('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos');
            if (!res.ok) throw new Error('Failed to fetch data');
            return res.json();
        });

        if (isLoading) return <p>Loading...</p>;
        if (error) return <p>Error: {error.message}</p>;

        return (
            <ul>
            {todos.map((todo) => (
                <li key={todo.id}>{todo.title}</li>
            ))}
            </ul>
        );
    }

    export default Todos;
    ```

### Additional parameters to remember

1. **Query Key**: 
    - An array that uniquely identifies the query (e.g., `['todos']`). It helps in caching and deduplication. 
    - From v5, the queryKey must be passed as an `array`.
        ```jsx
            // An individual todo
            useQuery({ queryKey: ['todo', 5], ... })

            // An individual todo in a "preview" format
            useQuery({ queryKey: ['todo', 5, { preview: true }], ...})

            // A list of todos that are "done"
            useQuery({ queryKey: ['todos', { type: 'done' }], ... })
        ```
2. **Query Function**: A function that fetches the data. It should return a Promise resolving to the data.
3. **Options**: An optional object to configure the query behavior. Common options include -
    - `enabled`: A boolean to control whether the query should automatically run.
    - `staleTime`: Duration in milliseconds for which the data is considered fresh.
    - `cacheTime`: Time in milliseconds before inactive query data is garbage-collected.
    - `retry`: Number of retry attempts if the query fails (also has `retryOnMount`, `retryDelay`).
    - `onSuccess`: Callback function invoked when the query succeeds.
    - `onError`: Callback function invoked when the query fails.
    - `refetchOnWindowFocus`: Determines whether the query should refetch when the window regains focus. (also `refetchOnMount`) (true/fale/'always').
    - `initialData`: If set, this value will be used as the initial data for the query cache (as long as the query hasn't been created or cached yet).
    - `placeholderData`: If set, this value will be used as the placeholder data for this particular query observer while the query is still in the pending state.
    - `refetchInterval` - For polling of data on specific time. (number in ms) (refetchIntervalBackground - true/false)
4. **QueryClient**: `queryClient` - Use this to use a custom QueryClient. Otherwise, the one from the nearest context will be used.

#### staleTime vs. cacheTime:

1. **staleTime**: 
    - Defines how long the data is considered fresh. 
    - During this time, React Query will not refetch the data on component re-mount or window focus. 
    - Once staleTime expires, the data becomes "stale", and a background fetch will occur if needed.
2. **cacheTime**: 
    - Controls how long data remains in the cache after it is no longer in use (i.e., no components are subscribed to it). 
    - Once the cacheTime expires, the data is garbage-collected.

#### placeholderData vs. initialData:

1. **placeholderData**: 
    - Provides a temporary value to be shown while the query is fetching or in the "loading" state. 
    - It’s mainly used to give an immediate feedback to the user before the actual data is available.
2. **initialData**: 
    - Sets the initial data used when the query is first created. 
    - If you have data that might be available locally or from a previous session, you can use it to prepopulate the query cache.